This video provides an overview of optical drives, including their types, history, and usage.

Optical drives use a flat circular disc to encode data. They became popular in the 1980s due to their ability to store a lot of data for a relatively cheap price. Nowadays, they have become a legacy technology with the increased use of network storage and flash media.

There are three main types of optical discs: CD, DVD, and Blu-ray. The main difference between these discs is the amount of data they can hold. CDs can store up to 700MB of data, DVDs can store up to 8.5GB of data, and Blu-rays can store up to 50GB of data.

Optical drives can be either read-only (R) or rewritable (RW). Read-only discs can only be written to once, while rewritable discs can be written to and erased multiple times.

Optical drives can also be either single layer or dual layer. Single layer discs have one layer of data, while dual layer discs have two layers of data. Dual layer discs can store twice as much data as single layer discs.

When choosing an optical drive, it is important to consider the type of media you will be using and the features you need. Basic DVD optical drives only support reading and writing DVDs. DVD drives that also support reading Blu-ray can read Blu-ray discs but cannot write to them. DVD drives that support reading and writing to both DVD and Blu-ray are called combo drives.

Optical discs use their own format, which is called ISO 9660. This format is used by most operating systems.

Optical discs can be used to store data, music, and videos. They can also be used to create backups and install software.

Remember, this summary is based on the information provided in the "[Optical Drives - CompTIA A+ 220-1101 – 2.7](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rvy1hOtBkZI&list=PL1l78n6W8zyrFmq3X1ICQYk_unsavtbzi&index=27)" video.