In this video, I will explore some of the common issues you might encounter, such as overheating and physical damage to computers. As a computer technician, you'll frequently encounter service calls related to these types of problems.

Is There a Pattern
When troubleshooting difficult problems, consider asking yourself, is there a pattern? In IT, I have heard so many times the story of a server crashing at the same time outside regular business hours because the cleaner unplugged the server to use the vacuum cleaner.

I have never met a cleaner who has done this, but I keep hearing the story. So, I wonder, did it really ever happen or is it an IT myth? If you have ever met a cleaner that has done this, let me know in the comments.

Hopefully, you will find a pattern that will allow you to identify the problem. For example, some heat related problems either start occurring when the computer has been on or off for a certain amount of time or under load for a certain amount of time. Other problems may only start occurring when you use certain hardware or do certain things.

In some cases, the problems may occur randomly and are known as intermittent. These are often the hardest problems to identify, as they appear to occur randomly and there is nothing obvious causing it.

I once encountered a user whose computer would experience significant slowdowns and functionality issues every few months. We fixed it by re-imaging the computer but could not identify the cause. After thorough investigation, we discovered that the user regularly used a poorly designed third-party cleanup tool to free up storage space. The cleanup tool was making changes to the system, causing performance issues.

These problems are not always user related, they may be caused by software, disk file corruption problems, or malware.

Check Software Problems/Damage
When checking for problems, it is good to start with checking for software problems or broken software. One good place to look is the log files. On Windows, the Event Viewer is a good place to look. If the problem is a particular application, often it will have its own log files. It is worth having a look in the log files to see if anything was recorded just before the problem occurred.

Since operating systems have a lot of components, sometimes one component may cause another to crash. If you see any errors in the logs around the time the software crashed, even if it is in an unrelated system, it is worth looking into it, to see if it may be causing the problem.

It is also a good idea to check for Malware. If you have malware software installed, check to make sure that it is still running. I have had users switch off Malware software to speed up their computers. It is good to check if the software is still running.

Other Checks
Other checks you can do include checking that the power supply is working correctly. A power supply that is not working correctly will cause the computer to restart and crash unexpectedly. You can also run diagnostic tools, for example, MemTest86. This is freely available software that will test that the memory in your computer is running. Your computer may also include additional diagnostic tools which may be accessed through the computer’s setup.

Overheating
I will now look at overheating problems with computers. Modern computers control their temperature and the main way they do this is by using fans and thermal throttling control. Let’s consider a CPU as an example. A CPU will normally operate within a particular temperature range. Different CPUs will operate at different temperatures.

When you switch your computer on, it is not under load, so it should stay within its normal temperature range. If the CPU is at a higher temperature range than normal, most likely the cooling in the computer is not working. This is often caused by the CPU cooler and CPU not having a good connection, usually due to poor thermal paste application, dust or other factors slowing down the fans on the CPU.

Remember, this summary is based on the information provided in the "[Troubleshoot Component Issues - CompTIA A+ 220-1101 – 3.11](https://youtube.com/watch?v=NBCixJY0IGw&list=PL1l78n6W8zyrFmq3X1ICQYk_unsavtbzi&index=36)" video.