Missing Video
One of the most common problems you will come across is missing video. The first step in troubleshooting is to check that cables are plugged in. This includes the power cables and making sure the monitor is on. Cables can appear to be plugged in, however, even if they are out by a little bit, you won’t get a video signal. So, the first step is, make sure they are plugged in. Just to make sure, I will often pull the cable out and then plug it back in again, making sure it is all the way in.

In the next step, I would check that the video source is correct. Most monitors will have multiple input ports. For this monitor, there are two. So, I will unplug it from one port and plug it into the other one. If you have a remote control, you could use the remote control, but there is an easier way that I will show you in a moment.

In this example, the monitor is off. So, all I need to do is switch it on. Of course, this is one of the first things you should check for. When you check the cables are plugged in, check the power cables are plugged in and the power is on. Even if the power was on, often I will switch the monitor off and back on again. On most monitors this will trigger it to test each input port to see if it is connected. This can be easier than cycling through the input ports looking for the one that is connected.

On your monitor, there should be a button or an option to change the input source. For this monitor, there is a button on the back which when pressed will cycle between the two input ports.

In a lot of cases, you will find the problem is that a cable has come out or the monitor is set to the wrong input port. Assuming of course it is plugged in and switched on, which I assume you would have checked before doing anything else!

Damaged cables
If you are not getting a video signal, or an intermittent connection or distortion, it is possible that you are dealing with a damaged cable. Modern cables often use blade-style connectors, which offer improved durability over older pin-style versions. Despite their enhanced robustness, blade connectors are not impervious to damage. Consequently, it's wise to conduct a detailed inspection to verify that your connectors remain in optimal condition.

Sometimes the damage is noticeable, as in these examples. At other times you may not be able to see the damage. To test the cable, use a known good cable. If the known good cable works, then there is something wrong with the other one.

Cable Compatibility
Problems can also occur with cable compatibility. For example, HDMI has a number of different standard cables. For the exam, you won’t need to know the different cable standards, but you may get a question that will test to see if you understand that some cables are of better quality than others. Better-quality cables allow for high data speeds, or as I like to say, not all cables are created equal.

Cable manufacturers don’t have to make their cables to these standards, but if you do see logos like these, you know what standard the cable was designed for. If the cable does not meet a particular standard, have a look at the specifications of the cable and see if the max data speed is listed. This will allow you to determine what maximum resolution the cable supports.

As before, test if this is the problem using a known good cable. Generally, the best cable to test a monitor with is the cable that came with the monitor if it is available. Unfortunately, there are a lot of cheap cables on the market, and often you won’t be able to tell what the cable supports by looking at it. Don’t assume, test the cable to make sure that it is working and that it supports the resolution that you are trying to use.

Remember, this summary is based on the information provided in the "[Troubleshooting Video Display Issues - CompTIA A+ 220-1101 – 3.14](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yDnbZcE2mLg&list=PL1l78n6W8zyrFmq3X1ICQYk_unsavtbzi&index=39)" video.


