This video provides an overview of BIOS settings. BIOS, or Basic Input Output System, is a program that provides the code so you can access basic functions of the computer. UEFI is a newer system that is designed to replace BIOS. BIOS is only used on older computers. When the computer is switched on, the computer's BIOS initiates a power on self test, or POST, which conducts a preliminary check of the hardware components to ensure they are functioning correctly. The BIOS also holds the basic computer configuration. This configuration defines computer settings like the boot order of the computer, what hardware is enabled or disabled, and a number of other settings. These settings are not very large. It also has an internal clock which keeps the date and time. Traditionally, the battery in the computer kept these settings so they were not lost when the computer was disconnected from power. On modern computers, these settings are stored in flash memory and thus do not require power to prevent loss. The battery, however, does still run the internal clock. On older computers, when the battery goes flat, the time will reset and you will lose all your settings. On more modern computers, you just lose the time. The video then goes on to look at some BIOS settings in detail.

Remember, this summary is based on the information provided in the "[BIOS Settings - CompTIA A+ 220-1101 – 3.4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3OK98pW8hBw&list=PL1l78n6W8zyrFmq3X1ICQYk_unsavtbzi&index=29)" video.